Kai (Karol) Yan
Shanghai, China | +1 34133386055 | karolyan1215@berkeley.edu
EDUCATION
Tongji University                                                          Shanghai, China
B.S. in Engineering Mechanics GPA:86.7 			     	               Expected in July 2026
University of California, Berkeley (UC Berkeley)                                     CA, USA
Visiting Student  GPA:3.7/4.0  							    Jan. 2025- May 2025
Main courses: Reinforcement Learning in Neuroscience, Cognitive Decision Model, Electronic Engineering.
RESEARCH INTEREST
My research interest mainly focus on the Neural-inspired Algorithm&Hardware, including Algorithms inspired by Brain mechanisms and their applications on Neuromorphic Devices (In-memory Computing Architecture and Edge Computing Wearable Devices) .
PUBLICATION
(Under Review) Kai Yan, Yanbing Jia, Huaguang Gu*, Complex dynamics related seizure in network composed of excitatory and inhibitory neurons modulated by inhibitory autapse, Nonlinear Dynamics
(In preparation) Xu Xiang, Kai Yan, ...,Wei Kong* Neuromorphic Computing Co-design System based on Ferroelectricity 2D  
RESEARCH EXPERIENCE
Neuromorphic Computing Co-design System based on Ferroelectricity 2D   Hangzhou, China
Research Assistant | Prof. Wei Kong at Westlake University                        July. 2025-Present
Grew and exfoliated homoepitaxialβ-films from single-crystal substrates using a Plasma-Assisted Molecular Beam Epitaxy (PAMBE) system, with real-time thickness growth monitored by Reflection High-Energy Electron Diffraction (RHEED). Successfully activated the film's ferroelectricity by depositing a metallic stressor layer.
Utilized 2D  as a middle layer to prepare film memristors and developed a Verilog-A behavioral model for circuit simulation based on measured device metrics, including a decay factor of 0.039, a homogeneity larger than 90%, and a switch voltage of 0.8V.
Designed and laid out a 1T1R memristor crossbar array integrated with peripheral driving and sensing circuits using the Cadence Virtuoso Suite. Performed HSPICE/Spectre simulations to verify that the circuit design effectively mitigates sneak path and leakage currents, establishing a robust hardware foundation for in-memory computing.
Deployed a Spiking Neural Network (SNN)-Transformer on the integrated 2D memristor processor to realize natural language processing (NLP). Conducted hardware-software co-simulation to benchmark its performance, demonstrating significant advantages in energy efficiency and latency compared to traditional transistor-based processors.
Non-invasive EEG Pattern Recognition and Classification by RNN                      CA, USA
Research Assistant | Prof. Lexin Li at UC Berkeley                              Feb. 2025-July.2025
Designed a Class-specific RNN from scratch, which assigns a next-step predicting RNN for 6 seizure types annotated in TUH EEG dataset and compare their reconstructing MSE to classify samples.
Compared the Class-specific RNN with Vanilla RNN baseline on the same multi-classification task. Achieved 100% on all metrics while Vanilla RNN only gets all metrics around 70%.
Utilized statistic methods such as PCA and t-SNE to analyze hidden state dynamics. Proved that predictors learned unique hidden dynamics by calculating their t-SNE similarity to be larger than 1.4. 
Planning to apply the classification method to EEG-Language Recovery, which can align the tokens with specific EEG patterns, and thus recover the semantic meaning of sentences from EEG data. 
Gain-Shift RSNN with Neural Inspired Feedback Control                         CA, USA
Research Assistant | Prof. Kristofer Bouchard at UC Berkeley                     Jan. 2025-July.2025
Set up a standard platform codebase with in 2 weeks to run function approximation experiments and analyze results autonomously. Analyze more than 10 models hierarchically with ablation study.
Inspired by FORCE algorithm, designed a Gain&Shift modulated Recurrent SNN with snnTorch package. Extended SNN type to both Spike-rate SNN and Membrane-potential SNN. Realized different parameter initialization strategies to learn the properties under various situation. Applied STDP & Hebbian Learning Rules to modulate the output weight to simulate biological-plausible behavior.
Replacing standard stochastic gradient descent (SGD) with a linear-quadratic regulator (LQR) as a controller for parameter training; Imposing Dale's law on the network architecture and implemented this approach in both conventional RNNs trained with SGD and in the gain/shift-based Recurrent SNNs.
Realization of Logic-operating Circuits based on Ion-Fluidic Memristor		Shenzhen, China
Research Assistant | Prof. Alessandro Siria at ENS Paris & TsingHua X Institute     Aug. 2024-Sept. 2024
Performed circuit simulation using Multisim to design NAND gates and conducting patch clamp experiments to validate ion-fluidic memristor behavior within nanoscale fluidic tubes, and adjusted the solution concentration to optimize the memristor’s On/Off ratio to meet the performance requirements.
Designed lithographic mask layouts with L-Edit and integrated fluidic memristors on silicon wafers and PDMS substrates, and validated the nanoscale ion-fluidic memristor effect.
Conducted COMSOL simulations to reveal nonlinear ion migration dynamics governed by Poisson–Nernst–Planck (PNP), and demonstrated that surface charge density modulation (σ = -0.02 to +0.05 C/m²) significantly influences ion migration barriers.
The Complex Dynamics of Seizure	Modulated by Inhibitory Autapses       	Shanghai, China
Research Assistant | Prof. Huaguang Gu at Tongji University		    	    Apr. 2023-Dec. 2024
Developed a fast-spiking synchronous neural network in C++ with featuring excitatory and inhibitory neurons with inhibitory autapses. Utilized grid parameter searching to fine the key parameter range for epileptiform pattern, including gamma oscillations and interictal spike-wave complexes. 
Utilized OriginLab and MATLAB to plot figures to display the attractors on the parameter planes. Applied the Kuromoto-R1 index and firing rate to quantify the seizure extent of networks. Reduced the network synchronism from 0.99 to 0.2 and the Firing rate from 1 to 0 by autapses’ modulation.
Established evidence for dual-regime autaptic modulation according to bifurcation theory, identified the  parameter plane boundaries through the simulation data, and demonstrated how autapses paradoxically increase firing through delayed negative feedback phase locking.
PROJECT
SNN-RL Autonomous Driving System Based on Neuromorphic Computing   	Shanghai, China
Team Leader | Prof. Peng Yi at Tongji University                        	    Mar. 2024-Apr. 2025
Performed an in-depth review of 30+ papers spanning neuromorphic computing, spiking neural networks (SNNs), and event-based sensing, and reproduced key methodologies from a Nature publication on reducing event camera latency via Linux-based virtual environment
Developed a STCNN-SNN-Transformer algorithm to address the energy-accuracy-latency trilemma, where low-frequent ST-CNN can extract spatiotemporal features from RGB inputs and event-driven dual-path SNN can achieve 12ms dynamic detection at 0.8mJ/inference
Constructed comprehensive simulation environments in UE 4 and Microsoft AirSim, covering 50+ edge cases (adverse weather, sensor failures), and optimized SNN layers for compatibility with Synsense Tech's Xylo neuromorphic chip.
SKILL
Programming: C/C++, Python, MATLAB, PyTorch, Pandas, TensorFlow, Bash, Powershell, Docker
Software: OriginLab, Markdown & LaTeX, Zotero, Verilog-A, Cadence Virtuoso Suite, HSPICE / Spectre